two years after the Battle of New York
Steve Rogers works in Washington DC for
the espionage agency shield unto
director Nick Fury while adjusting to
contemporary society Rogers an agent
etosha Romanov are sent with shields
counterterrorism strike team led by
agent rumlow to free hostages aboard a
shield vessel from George betrothed and
his mercenaries
mid-mission rogers discovers Romanoff
has another agenda to extract data from
the ship's computers for fury rogers
returns to the show scallion shields
headquarters to confront fury and is
briefed about project insight three
helicarrier's linked to spy satellites
designed to preemptively eliminate
threats unable to decrypt the data
recovered by romanov fury become
suspicious about insight and asks senior
shield official Alexander Pierce to
delay the project on his way to
rendezvous with Maria hill fury is
ambushed by assailant led by a
mysterious assassin called the Winter
Soldier fury escapes to Rogers apartment
and warns Rogers that shield is
compromised after handing Rogers a flash
drive containing data from the ship
theory is gunned down by the Winter
Soldier fury dies in surgery and Hill
recovers the body the next day
Pierce summons Rogers to the Triskelion
when Rogers withholds Fury's information
Pierce brands him a fugitive before we
get started does anyone want to get out
hunted by strike Rogers meet with
Romanov using data and the flash drive
they discover a secret shield bunker in
New Jersey where they activate a
supercomputer containing the preserved
consciousness of Arnim Zola Zola reveals
that ever since shield was founded after
World War 2 Hydra has secretly operated
within its ranks so in global chaos with
the objective of making humanity willing
to surrender its freedom in exchange for
security the pair narrowly escaped death
when a shield missile destroys the
bunker and realized that Pierce's hydras
leader within shield Rogers and Romanoff
enlist to help a former USAF
pararescueman Sam Wilson when Rogers
befriended and acquired his powered
Falcon wing pack deducing that SHIELD
agent Jasper Sitwell is a Hydra mole
they forced him to divulge that Zola
developed a data mining algorithm that
can identify individuals who might
become future threats to hydras plans
the insight helicarriers will sweep the
globe using satellite guided guns to
eliminate these individuals Rogers
Romanoff and Wilson are ambushed by the
Winter Soldier who kills Sitwell during
the fight Rogers recognizes the Winter
Soldier as Bucky Barnes his friend who
was captured and experimented upon
during World War two Hill manages to
extract the trio to a safe house where
Fury who had faked his death is waiting
with plans
vataj the helicarriers by replacing
their controller chips after the world
security council members arrive for the
helicarrier's launch rogers broadcasts
hydras plot to everyone at the
Triskelion Romanov disguised as one of
the council members disarms Pierce I'm
sorry
fury arrives and forces Pierce to unlock
shields database so that Romanoff can
leak classified information exposing
Hydra to the public following a struggle
theory kills Pierce meanwhile Rogers and
Wilson stormed to helicarrier's and
replaced the controller chips but the
Winter Soldier destroys Wilson's suit
and fights Rogers on the third Rodgers
fend him off and replaces the final chip
allowing Hill to take control and have
the vessels destroy each other
Rodgers refuses to fight the Winter
Soldier in an attempt to reach his
friend finish it gives him with you to
the end of the line
but as the ship collides with the
Triskelion Rogers is thrown out into the
Potomac River
the Winter Soldier rescues the
unconscious Rogers before disappearing
into the woods with shield in disarray
romanov appears before a Senate
subcommittee and fury under the cover of
his apparent death heads to Eastern
Europe in pursuit of hydras remaining
cells Rogers and Wilson decide to find
the Winter Soldier while rumlow who was
a double agent for Hydra is hospitalized
following the triskelions destruction in
a mid credit scene
Baron Wolfgang von Strucker at a Hydra
lab proclaims that the age of miracles
has begun as scientists examine an
energy filled sector and two prisoners
one with superhuman speed the other with
telekinetic powers in a post-credits
scene the Winter Soldier visits a Bucky
memorial at the Smithsonian Institution